snap
a twig cracks under your heel uh-oh
you feel the cold sweat covering your
back you slowly turn your head without
moving any other part of your body
lucky you that huge brown bear right
behind you
didn't hear your mistake it's too deep
in its slumber
you tiptoe away carefully looking at the
ground
not to step on any other twigs bears
like many other animals mostly sleep
away the winter to survive the hungry
times
they eat not only fish and meat but
plants as well
and it's a challenge to find berries and
egg corns under the thickness of snow
so winter is a hard time for them but
evolution has
given bears the ability to skip this
hungry time
and just sleep it's called hibernation
when it gets cold the bear looks for a
cozy layer
usually they lay it out with hay or
branches then the bear lies down
comfortably and
falls asleep bears do suck their paw
while they sleep
but it's not because they're hungry
their skin is renewing itself
and itching because of that so when they
lick
they just want to scratch the itch a
bear sleep is very sensitive
it's easy to wake it up and if you do
you better be careful
when a bear wakes up is very hungry and
angry
and it may like you for its breakfast
sometimes
bears that wake up from hibernation
unplanned just
can't go back to sleep so they're forced
to roam the woods in search of food
but this is next to impossible in winter
and they just
fall down exhausted normally bears sleep
alone in their lairs
but if a female has recently given birth
it takes them along with it
while mother sleeps the babies suckle
her milk
and when her hibernation ends they leave
the den
as grown guys with thick fur
these big guys can go up to six months
without food
it's all about metabolism animals need
to replenish their energy reserves
which are spent to maintain normal body
temperature
so if you lower your body temperature
the energy amount to maintain it will
drop
when a bear sleeps its body temperature
drops to 86 degrees
its breathing and heart rate also drops
significantly
and the period that the bear may not eat
becomes longer
the body starts to use up the energy
stored in the bear's fat
during hibernation a bear can lose half
of its weight
their alarm clock is the warmth of
spring and an extreme
sense of hunger you can feel hungry if
you haven't eaten for four hours
imagine how these guys feel after six
months of starvation sleep
but the absolute record holders in
hibernation are the arctic ground
squirrels
they can sleep from early august to late
april so
they spend most of the year and most of
their life sleeping
while doing so this squirrel just turns
to ice
its body temperature drops from 98 to 26
degrees and its brain temperature stays
just above freezing
squirrels or bears don't need a special
organ to fall asleep for long periods of
time
neither do humans actually we already
can lower our body temperature
it drops a little bit even during a
normal night's sleep
but that's not enough to lower our
metabolism to keep us asleep for long
so we need to cool down even more
yet our body doesn't like drops in
temperature
let's see what goes with our volunteer
bob
when it gets cold bob's body starts
redistributing heat by priority
hands and feet aren't at the top all the
heat concentrates on the vital organs
leaving the extremities to freeze
instead of slowing down bob's breathing
and heart rate speed up instead
this is to get heat to all the important
organs
we lower the thermostat even more now
the body takes the heat away from the
surface
and directs it inside this causes bob's
skin to turn
white like a snowman's oh now he
suddenly wants to visit the restroom
yep because of the rapid blood flow
bob's body is producing more waste
and he wants to get rid of it urgently
temperature going even lower okay now
it's hard for him to even move because
humans have a thin
layer of fat well some thinner than
others
our insulation is rather weak the coal
gets to the muscles and they freeze like
an
ice statue only now bob's heart rate
begins to slow down
but this happens dramatically and it's
not the effect we were looking for
if we keep lowering the poor guy's body
temperature he will lose consciousness
eventually
and his internal organs will simply shut
down
okay that's enough let's turn up the
heat here and give our poor man some
warm clothes
a cup of tea and some applause for being
a good sport
besides skipping the cold season
hibernation has
practical applications and nasa sees
this as a real possibility
it takes about nine months to fly to
mars and
every pound of cargo costs a lot of
money
so naturally they want to find a way to
get the astronauts to eat less
putting them in hibernation pots is a
great idea
it requires leaving one crew member away
and they can monitor the condition of
their colleagues
when the space navigation system says
they've arrived at their destination
they'll wake up the sleepers uh just
make sure the computer's not named al
nine
that didn't turn out so well so far
scientists can't figure out how to lower
our body temperature safely
but nobody stops us from imagining what
our hibernation would look like
so all the people on our planet have
locked themselves up in their cozy homes
we need to make sure we curtain the
windows so the sunlight doesn't
interfere with us
oh and don't forget to leave some food
next to the bed
you'll be awfully hungry when you wake
up and so
the sleep begins since absolutely
everyone on earth is asleep now
no one is keeping our cities alive and
they begin to change
after 24 hours of slumber power plants
around the world begin to shut down
and the lights in many cities go out now
there's no tv
or internet but there's a place that
still shines like a diamond
las vegas it's powered by a giant
hydroelectric plant
and it can run unattended for a long
time but
nobody needs the lights of las vegas the
world is seeing
other dreams after a week of sleep
uninvited guests
come into our homes raccoons crawl into
trash cans
and scamper through fridges apparently
they found the front door key
without electricity fridges and
supermarkets and restaurants will stop
working
food and groceries are starting to spoil
the smell
will lure different scavengers and pests
a month since the sleep's begun wild
animals seek
refuge in the empty cities and if
previously a deer could only be seen
outside the city now they freely roam
the streets
three months have passed we usually
clean up the snow that falls on the
streets
but no one's been doing that now urban
utilities can't handle such a load
when the snow begins to melt it leads to
partial flooding
water gets into the subways and
basements and then
spring arrives your alarm clock makes
you wake up
oh you feel terribly cold and want to
warm up quickly
the next thing you do is grab the food
you made yourself to wake up to
i sure hope it hasn't spoiled in three
months
people come out of their homes and begin
to deal with the aftermath of their
hibernation
they have to chase away the animals that
are already used to running through the
empty streets
then the electricity and internet have
to be restored
after a few weeks our world takes on its
usual appearance
and all the people are happy because
they were able to skip their least
favorite season of the year
there's an option for those who want to
sleep longer than any animal in our
world
in fact it's just a trip to the future
it's a one-way ticket
because this option is freezing
scientists these days can flash freeze
your body at extremely low temperatures
this kind of freezing is supposed to
stop the aging process
so in a frozen state your body can last
a very long time
now the only problem is that the current
technology is very damaging to our body
when it's deep frozen
that's a big problem all we have is hope
for scientists and doctors of the future
in the years to come they might be able
to regenerate damaged tissues
and then they can bring frozen people
back into the world
imagine waking up a thousand years later
and seeing a wondrous new world with
flying cars
deep space travels and androids living
among us
you